Pd 1257 backup to google photos must select albums as destination folder (#2893)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/DataProtection/CloudSyncTasks/AddGooglePhotosCloudSyncTask.md

- data backup and recovery
---

Configuring a Google Photos cloud sync task requires a Google Photos API key and [rclone](https://rclone.org/) token.
See the [rclone Google Photos backend documentation](https://rclone.org/googlephotos/) for more on using rclone to sync Google Photos, including features and limitations of the Google Photos API.

> This is a multi-part procedure that includes [generating Google API credentials](#creating-the-api-credentials), [installing and configuring rclone](#configuring-rclone) on your client OS, [creating cloud credentials](#creating-google-photos-cloud-credentials) for Google Photos on TrueNAS SCALE, and then [configuring the cloud sync task](#creating-the-cloud-sync-task).

Reviewer: Okay, so this first sentence had me asking "How do I get this rclone token?" Clicking the link did not answer that question but I did find out more about it in the second link. I did a Google search, found an rclone forum post about the token that it is automatically generated through the connection or something like that.  
Line 15, why is it important to mention "features and limitation of the Google Photos API" here? How is this statement relevant to this particular procedure?
Line 17, the link provides the information on the token, called a remote, but I'm not sure if the "this is a multi-part procedure" is talking about what is in the link or the procedure in this article.
Might want to rewrite/organize theses introductory sentences for better information flow and more of an explanation about this.  

Reading through this article I think it could benefit from a summary overview procedure that steps them through each step, in the order they should complete them, with links to the sections. 
Some of the headers read like "before you begin" preparation steps, but if that is not the case then it can help the reader to know they should do this a particular way. For example:
1. Create your datasets on TruNAS. (with the link to the section about this.)
2. Create your rclone token (link to that section)
3. Add Google Photo authentication (link to that section)
etc. The parts on the direction and files is important but they might gloss over it if they don't know why that is important. It appears to be part of the advanced preparation or before you begin, or could just be really important about how Google Photos works. All this content is really excellent but I think it just needs that extra layer on top of it to direct the reader to what to do, the order to do it and the section with that content detail.

## Before You Begin

Review your storage and data protection requirements and consider your options before setting up a Google Photos cloud sync task.
Consider how you want to manage your media files on Google Photos and in your local dataset.

> Select the cloud sync task direction, transfer mode, and remote folder to target that best fit your needs.

Reviewer: Do they need to create their TrueNAS datasets before they try to complete this procedure?
If they need to take action to prepare the TrueNAS this is where we should say this, like we do when configuring an app like MinIO that needs certain datasets or some other configuration work in SCALE before they start the Google Photo/rclone process.

- data backup and recovery
---

Google Photos cloud sync tasks in TrueNAS SCALE use the [rclone](https://rclone.org/) backend for the [Google Photos API](https://developers.google.com/photos) to authenticate credentials and transfer data.

> Configuring a Google Photos cloud sync task is a multi-part procedure that includes:
> 
> 1. [Planning your deployment](#before-you-begin) and selecting a local dataset.
> 2. [Generating Google API credentials](#creating-the-api-credentials) on the Google Cloud API dashboard.
> 3. [Installing rclone and generating a token](#configuring-rclone) on your remote client OS.
> 4. [Adding Google Photos cloud credentials](#adding-google-photos-cloud-credentials) on TrueNAS SCALE.
> 5. [Configuring the cloud sync task](#creating-the-cloud-sync-task) on SCALE.

Reviewer: This is still reading like a bullet list and not like a summary procedure so I suggest this change:
```suggestion
Configuring a Google Photos cloud sync task is a multi-part procedure where you:

1. [Plan your deployment](#before-you-begin) and selecting a local dataset.
2. [Generate Google API credentials](#creating-the-api-credentials) on the Google Cloud API dashboard.
3. [Install rclone and generate a token](#configuring-rclone) on your remote client OS.
4. [Add Google Photos cloud credentials](#adding-google-photos-cloud-credentials) on TrueNAS SCALE.
5. [Configure the cloud sync task](#creating-the-cloud-sync-task) on SCALE.
```

## Before You Begin

Review your storage and data protection requirements and consider your options before setting up a Google Photos cloud sync task.
Refer to the rclone Google Photos backend documentation for more information on using rclone to sync Google Photos, including [standard options](https://rclone.org/googlephotos/#standard-options) and [limitations of the Google Photos API](https://rclone.org/googlephotos/#limitations), that might help you plan your deployment.

Consider how you want to manage your media files on Google Photos and in your local dataset.

> Select the cloud sync task [direction and transfer mode](#choosing-a-sync-direction-and-mode), [remote folder](#choosing-a-target-folder) to target, and [new or existing local dataset](#selecting-the-dataset-and-organizing-files) to pull to or push from, that best fit your needs.

Reviewer: Because this section is talking about planning, it makes more sense to say:
```suggestion
Decide on the cloud sync task [direction and transfer mode](#choosing-a-sync-direction-and-mode), [remote folder](#choosing-a-target-folder) to target, and [new or existing local dataset](#selecting-the-dataset-and-organizing-files) to pull to or push from, that best fit your needs.
```
Thoughts?

|  <file>/media/all</file> | Yes | Pull | Use this option if you prefer to use the Google Photos library as single directory, without organizing media files into discrete albums. The local dataset of a <file>/media/all</file> sync task contains all media files stored on the Google Photos account at the same level, with no further organization into subdirectories. Using <file>/media/all</file> allows you to upload new files to Google Photos, without needing to organize them into albums, and then pull them to TrueNAS. |
| <file>/upload</file> | **No** | Push | Media files pushed from the local dataset to <file>/upload</file> are then uploaded to Google Photos and not sorted into an album. Because <file>/upload</file> is a temporary storage location, it can not accurately synchronize from one task to the next. Pushing to this folder does not preserve metadata and can result in duplicated files, poor performance, file name instability. |
{{< /truetable >}}

### Selecting the Dataset and Organizing Files

> Next, select TrueNAS SCALE local dataset or create a new one to use as the source or destination.
> 
> {{< expand "Creating a Dataset" "v" >}}
> {{< include file="/static/includes/CreateDatasetSCALE.md" >}}
> {{< /expand >}}
> 
> Configure the local dataset file structure (for push tasks) or Google Photos library albums (for pull tasks) as required by your direction, mode, and target selections (see above).

Reviewer: I think it would be better to put line 74 as the first line in this section as it is the important part about creating or selecting the dataset. What do you think about this?
```suggestion
Configure the local dataset file structure (for push tasks) or Google Photos library albums (for pull tasks) as required by your direction, mode, and target selections (see above).
Either select the TrueNAS SCALE local dataset or create a new one to use as the source or destination.

{{< expand "Creating a Dataset" "v" >}}
{{< include file="/static/includes/CreateDatasetSCALE.md" >}}
{{< /expand >}}
```

Author: I was thinking more in terms of how you manage files within the dataset after selecting or creating it. What do you think about this instead:

```suggestion
Next, select TrueNAS SCALE local dataset or create a new one to use as the source or destination.

{{< expand "Creating a Dataset" "v" >}}
{{< include file="/static/includes/CreateDatasetSCALE.md" >}}
{{< /expand >}}

Configure file management structure inside the local dataset (for push tasks) or albums in the Google Photos (for pull tasks) as required by your direction, mode, and target selections (see above).
```

Reviewer: Good idea. With that change I'm okay with it being here under the dataset expand, but still remove Next from line 68

## Creating the API Credentials

On the [Google API dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/dashboard), click the dropdown menu to the right of the Google Cloud logo and select your project.

If you do not have a project, click **NEW PROJECT** and enter a value in **Project name**, **Organization**, and **Location**.
Click **Create**.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPINewProject.png" alt="New Project" id="New Project" >}}

### Enable API

After you select your project, click **Enabled APIs & Services** on the left menu, then click **+ ENABLE APIS AND SERVICES**.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPIEnableAPIsandServices.png" alt="Enable APIs and Services" id="Enable APIs and Services" >}}

Enter **photos library api** in the search bar, then select **Photos Library API** and click **ENABLE**.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPIClickEnable.png" alt="Enable Photos Library API" id="Enable Photos Library API" >}}

### Configure Authentication

> Next, click **OAuth consent screen** on the left menu, select **EXTERNAL**, then click **CREATE**.

Reviewer: The content was still reading like it did as one long conversational procedure but now that you have added the section titles to create the summary procedure above the sections just need a little adjustment.
In the sections that follows you start by jumping into the action for that "step" like starting with "Click" or "download" so you can go that way for parallel construction:
```suggestion
Click **OAuth consent screen** on the left menu, select **EXTERNAL**, then click **CREATE**.
```

Enter a name for the new remote, then enter the number from the list corresponding to Google Photos.

Enter the client id and secret you saved when you created the Google Photos API credentials, then enter `false` or press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to allow the Google Photos backend to request full access.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPIrcloneConfig2.png" alt="Configure rclone Client ID and Secret" id="Configure rclone Client ID and Secret" >}}

Do not edit the advanced config.

Enter `y` to authenticate rclone using the web browser.
A browser window opens to authorize rclone access.
Click **Allow**.

In the command line, enter `y` to confirm rclone uploads media items with full resolution and complete the configuration.

Copy and save the type, client_id, client_secret, and token, then enter `y` to save the new remote.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPIrcloneConfig3.png" alt="Confirm rclone Configuration" id="Confirm rclone Configuration" >}}

## Adding Google Photos Cloud Credentials

> On the TrueNAS Web UI, go to **Credentials > Backup Credentials** and click **Add** in the **Cloud Credentials** widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the TrueNAS Web UI, go to **Credentials > Backup Credentials** and click **Add** in the **Cloud Credentials** widget.
```

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/DataProtection/GooglePhotosAPIAddCloudCredentials.png" alt="Add Cloud Credentials" id="Add Cloud Credentials" >}}

Select Google Photos as the **Provider** and enter a name.

Paste the Google Photos API client ID and client secret in the **OAuth Client ID** and **OAuth Client Secret** fields.

Paste your rclone token into the **Token** field.

Click **Verify Credential** to ensure the credentials are valid, then click **Save**.

## Creating the Cloud Sync Task

> To add a cloud sync task, go to **Data Protection > Cloud Sync Tasks** and click **Add**. The **Cloud Sync Task Wizard** opens.

Reviewer: For parallel construction
```suggestion
To add a cloud sync task, Go to **Data Protection > Cloud Sync Tasks** and click **Add**. The **Cloud Sync Task Wizard** opens. 
```
